So now let's see an overview
of the SSM Patch Manager.
So we use the Patch Manager to automate the process
of patching our managed instances.
This includes OS updates, applications updates
and security updates.
Of course, it supports both EC2 instances
and on-premises server
and Linux, MacOS and Windows.
You're going to patch on demand
so you can run the patch manager as you want
or on the schedule if you want to use a maintenance window.
What's going to happen
is that the patch manager will scan the instances
and will generate a patch compliance report
which is a list of all the machine patches.
And then this report can be sent to S3
and then we can act upon this report.
So patch manager has two components
we need to know about,
which is the number one is the patch baseline
and the number two is patch groups.
So patch baseline defines which patches should
and shouldn't be installed on your EC2 instances
and the ability to create custom patch baseline
is up to you if you want to specify approved
or rejected patches on your instance.
The patches can also be auto approved
within days of their release
in case someone is not there to approve them.
By default, the patch baseline is to install
only critical patches
and patches related to security
onto your SSM managed instances.
Now for patch group,
this is to associate a set of instances
with a specific patch baseline.
So if you define custom patch baselines,
then you can create patch groups
to associate them together.
And for example,
you can have a patch group for dev,
test and prod.
Now, instances when using patch groups
should be defined with a tech key patch group
and an instance at any time,
therefore can only be part of one patch group.
And the patch group can only be registered
with one patch baseline.
So we have two kind of patch baselines
in Patch Manager.
We have the predefined patch baselines
and they're managed by AWS
and they're defined for operating systems
that are different
and you cannot modify them.
Now to run one of these predefined patch baseline,
you can use the SSM document
named AWS Run Patch Baseline,
to apply both operating system
and application patches for Linux,
MacOS and Windows server.
You can also define your custom patch baseline.
So you define your own patch baseline
and you choose which patches are auto-approved,
which are allowed,
which are rejected,
and the operating system.
And you can also specify custom
or alternative patch repository.
So you can really, for example,
have an internal corporate patch repository for this.
Now I want to make this clear with a diagram.
So we have three types of easy two instances
all running the SSM agents.
The number ones are going to be tagged
with OS Windows patch group dev,
number two is OS Windows,
number three is OS Windows Patch Group prod.
And in Patch Manager
we're going to define patch baselines.
So the first patch baseline
is attached to the default patch group
which is when a patch group is not defined by default.
And this is default yes.
So any instance that doesn't have
a specific patch group
is going to get the first patch baseline ID.
And the second one
is running the patch group dev,
which is not a default patch baseline.
And we have a specific patch baseline ID.
So thanks to this tagging
the first instance which is under patch group dev
is going to have the PB98, whatever, patch baseline ID.
And the other two are going to have the PB0123
patch baseline ID
because they are not tagged with a patch group dev.
So here we're going to run a command
and this command is going to be running a document
called AWS Run Patch Baseline.
And this can be initiated from the console,
the SDK or the maintenance window.
And then the run command itself
will be applied to all these EC2 instances,
from within obviously,
to install the patches.
Now, the SSM agent on these instances
will query to the patch manager service
to get an idea of which patches to include
and to run thanks to the patch baseline.
So this may seem complicated
but hopefully this is something you understand.
And then obviously you can have rate control,
just like anything in SSM,
using a maintenance window.
So talking about maintenance windows,
this is when you want to define a schedule
for when to perform actions on your instances.
For example, OS patching,
updating drivers and installing software.
For example, this could be done
at night between 3:00 and 5:00 AM.
And a maintenance window contains a schedule,
a duration and a set of registered instances,
as well as a set of tasks
that can be run during that maintenance window.
So hopefully that makes sense.
From a exam perspective,
what you need to know is that
patch manager is used to patch your instances
but that comes, I guess, naturally.
And these patches can be run
within a specific maintenance window
with a specific rate control if you need to.
Okay, that's it.
I will see you in the next lecture.